Growing up, I would often hear stories about my late grandfather in his home country of Bangladesh
helping women who were in labour to give birth. This was largely unheard of due to cultural gender
differences at the time. In these rural areas, there were very few professionals available, and no
government funded healthcare system to provide a clean and safe environment for childbirth. What
I admired most about my grandfather, is that he put aside traditions and did everything he could to
provide care and support for women in their time of need. I was further inspired when my mother
fell pregnant with my brother. Throughout this process, I supported my mother at home and by
accompanying her on hospital trips. Having regular contact with midwives gave me a further insight
into other aspects of the job such as home visits and offering support through both the pre and post-
natal period. Being a caring and maternal person, I could really see myself being a professional
midwife and supporting others in the same way that my grandfather supported those women in
Bangladesh, and how the midwives supported my mother.
I am currently studying a Level3 BTEC Extended Diploma in Health and Social Care at Oldham Sixth
Form College. This course covers many different units such as biology, psychology and sociology,
which link to midwifery. In the biology unit, I learnt about human anatomy and physiology. This has
given me an in depth knowledge of how the body works including reproduction and the science
behind pregnancy. At university, I hope to build on this knowledge so that I am able to determine
the health of a foetus and potentially make accurate lifesaving decisions if there were to be any
abnormalities. In the psychology units, we learnt about mentalhealth symptoms, conditions and
treatments. Being able to recognise symptoms will help to identify conditions such as post-natal
depression. This will allow me to get early help and treatment to ensure the mother has a good
relationship with her newborn child. Furthermore, in the sociological units i explored how a person's
background and cultural beliefs can affect their behaviours and attitudes. This will help me to
understand how to support a diverse range of women throughout their pregnancy while respecting
their beliefs and traditions. Alongside my course, I have completed a paediatric first aid qualification
during enrichment time. This has given me the knowledge to help young children who may require
first aid treatment. The course opened my eyes to what children are most at risk of and how to deal
with emergencies. I can see this being invaluable when visiting young families as a community
midwife.
Outside of college, I currently volunteer at a primary school. This role has helped to enhance my
communication skills with colleagues and young children, which will benefit me on my midwifery
course, as I will have to communicate as part of a team of midwives and with people from different
backgrounds. I also worked a charity called Life Plus to help raise money for a deprived village
Bangladesh. I attended many community events and organised a bake sale to help fund the building
of a new school in the village. In summer 2017, I took the opportunity to stay in Bangladesh. I saw
for myself some of the conditions that people were living in and some of the positive work that Life
Plus had done to improve lives there. Alongside the new school building, I visited a clinic, which Life
Plus had funded, for women to give birth in safe and hygienic environment and for them to have a
proper facility fornre and nostnatalcare. This further grew my affection for helning individuals who